README.md

Milestone Project 1

Travel Canada Website

This website is my first project after the culmination of studying the fundamentals of HTML, CSS, and responsive design.

I have a personal history of having lived and worked in Canada on a 2 year working visa and I wanted to create a website for anyone
who was considering a similar decision. The website provides a simple landing page announcing the purpose of the website, 
an overview of what seasonal life would be like in winter and summer, a step by step approach for attaining a working visa and 
what to expect when making the move to live in Canada, and a contact page is available for any additional information a user may require.

UX

This website was developed for anyone who is searching for information regarding getting a Canadian working visa.
As such, the landing page is simple and open as the intention of the website was to make the purpose very clear from the start. The idea behind
the website was to guide the user through a brief sentence explaining my relevent knowledge of the subject, onto the seasonal page
giving pictures I had taken myself alongside informative text about winter and summer life in Canada. This is followed by a timeline image
giving a step by step approach for attaining a visa and what to expect of Canadian living. The final page is a simple contact form in case 
there was something a user failed to learn after visiting my website.

The 'seasonal' page is largely opinion based as the text is based purely on personal experience and exists to give an account of someone who
has had the time to experience the vast differences in lifestyle and living conditions of winter and summer. This page is responsive and allows 
users to read or hide text so it doesn't clog up the whole page. This page was written in a blog style of wishing to inform and give an idea of what
living in Canada could be like.

The website was designed with the idea that it would be something I would have found useful myself. There are links to a government website with details on what the user needs 
to look for, a working holiday company example with an explanation of the services they provided me and my personal opinion on them. As well as this
there is information on health insurance, and a brief introduction into Canadian culture. This is all useful information I personally never encountered
in one place, in a bite size display that is easy to disgest. This would be the first page a user would study for the essential information they need.

This website was the second attempt for this project. A first website was developed with the goal of trying to only use HTML and CSS without using
the bootstrap framework; https://jonwil91.github.io/Milestone-project-first-attempt/ . It was a personally set challenge to ensure I had learnt the 
fundamentals, but it highlighted areas that would operate more efficiently using the framework utilised in this project. It also gave a good structure
of how to approach the layout.

User stories:

Josh had researched the technical side of what is necessary for gaining a working visa in Canada but wanted to gain an insight to what his experience might be like
working in different seasons. The seasonal page gave a personal account of the information he was looking for.

Hannah had recently started considering the idea of moving to Canada on a working holiday visa. Upon visiting the website she went staight onto the info page, 
which gave her a clear and simple step by step suggestion on how to approach getting a working visa. The page provided useful links to the government website for
filling out initial forms, working holiday companies and a health insurance company suggestion.

Features

Index page:

The index page has a callout container with a background image that takes up the whole screen and declares what this website is for. 
This idea was inspired by www.simplesite.company
A small container is below the landing page image and allows users to understand that the information is coming from personal experience.

Seasonal page:

The seasonal page layout is responsive to all devices. The images and corresponding text containers are stacked ontop of each other for tablet and mobile.
The accordion affect is also implemented for text in mobile view to make browsing the page a nicer experience. On a desktop screen the images and corresponding
text are side by side. These features give users an insight into my personal account of winter and summer life in Canada.

Info page:

The info page has a simple timeline item layout to guide a user through the essential steps of attaining a Canadian working visa. On mobile and tablet
devices this is all the information displayed. Desktop utilises more space with a Canadian flag image and additional information underneath. The timeline
provides links to external tabs to guide them to sites they may wish to visit for more information.

Contact page:

The final page utilises a simple contact form. There is no JavaScript used in this project so the information provided would not be sent to another
server. But each form has a required element ensuring users don't mispell or misuse the contact box. If a user required further information or hadn't learnt
something from the website they would be able to enquire here.

Additional features to be implemented; I have a video of my travels through Canada that I would like to add to the website. On my first attempt I used a logo in my header
created by www.logomakr.com. This addition did not suit my final design but I would like to find a way to include it to add impact.



Technologies Used

1. HTML
2. CSS
3. Bootstrap 4 framework
4. Google Fonts
5. Font Awesome
6. jQuery and cloudflare frameworks


Testing




Deployment

https://help.github.com/en/github/working-with-github-pages/configuring-a-publishing-source-for-your-github-pages-site

https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/cloning-a-repository



Credits

Content:

All text content contained in this project is original and was not copied from outside sources.

The navigation menu and responsive drop down that is present on all four pages was based on the project "Whiskey Drop" with Code Institute. This was modified and 
styled to suit the needs of my project, leaving only the navbar brand and four links pushed to the right.

The landing page style was inspired by www.simplesite.com, with the idea of a background image taking up the whole screen and little additional content to the page.
The image used was a photo I took myself.

The layout for the seasonal page came largely from inital plans with esecially with words of advice and encouragement from my mentor. Both images included are photos 
that I took myself.

The info page took inspiration from the "Resume project" in the use of the timeline item, with it being modified to suit my needs of a step by step layout of content.
The image used on desktop devices was taken from www.shutterstock.com. The idea behind the layout of the three divs at the bottom of this page on desktop devices 
was inspired by the "Whiskey Drop" project.


Do i need to mention the websites of links i've used in website?


https://github.com/AJGreaves/portrait-artist
